---
layout: post
title: "CVC4 1.7 Released"
author: "Haniel Barbosa"
---

We are delighted to announce version 1.7 of CVC4, the open-source flagship SMT
solver developed at Stanford University, New York University and the University
of Iowa, available at
[http://cvc4.cs.stanford.edu](http://cvc4.cs.stanford.edu).

**New Features:**
- Proofs:
  - Support for bit-vector proofs with eager bitblasting (older versions only
    supported proofs with lazy bitblasting).
- Strings:
  - Support for `str.replaceall` operator.
  - New option `--re-elim` to reduce regular expressions to extended string
    operators, resulting in better performance on regular expression benchmarks
    (enabled by default).
- SyGuS:
  - Support for abduction (`--sygus-abduct`). Given a formula, this option uses
    CVC4's SyGuS solver to find a sufficient condition such that the
    conjunction of the condition and the formula is unsatisfiable.
  - Support for two new term enumerator strategies: variable agnostic
    (`--sygus-active-gen=var-agnostic`) and fast (`--sygus-active-gen=enum`).
    By default, CVC4 tries to choose the best term enumerator strategy
    automatically based on the input (`--sygus-active-gen=auto`).
  - Support for streaming solutions of increasingly smaller size when using the
    PBE solver (`--sygus-stream --sygus-pbe`). After the first solution is
    found and printed, the solver will continue to look for new solutions and
    print those, if any, that are smaller than previously printed solutions.
  - Support for unification-based techniques in non-separable specifications
    (`--sygus-unif`). For solving invariant problems a dedicate mode
    (`--sygus-unif-boolean-heuristic-dt`) is available that builds candidate
    solutions using heuristic decision tree learning.

**Improvements:**
- Strings:
  - Significantly better performance on string benchmarks over the core theory
    and those with extended string functions like substring, contains, and
    replace.

**Changes:**
- API change: `Expr::iffExpr()` is renamed to `Expr::eqExpr()` to reflect its
  actual behavior.
- Compiling the language bindings now requires SWIG 3 instead of SWIG 2.
- The CVC3 compatibility layer has been removed.
- The build system now uses CMake instead of Autotools. Please refer to
  [INSTALL.md](https://github.com/CVC4/CVC4/blob/84da9c0b4825abee124357a2b8e779965a9c7b30/INSTALL.md)
  for up-to-date instructions on how to build CVC4.

We welcome feedback, feature requests, contributions, and collaborations.  It
is our hope that CVC4 will become a research platform for a broad and diverse
set of users and developers.  If you are interested in getting involved with
the project, please contact a member of the [development
team]({{ "people.html" | relative_url }}).

The development of CVC4 is supported in part by the following organizations:
- The Air Force Office of Scientific Research (award FA9550-09-1-0596)
- Amazon AWS Automated Reasoning Group
- The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (awards FA8750-13-2-0241,
  FA8750-15-C-0113, N66001-18-C-4012, FA8650-18-2-7854, FA8650-18-2-7861)
- The European Research Council (grant 306595 "STATOR")
- GE Global Research
- Google
- Intel Corporation
- NASA (contract #NNL14AA06C)
- The National Science Foundation (grants 0644299, 0914956, 1049495, 1228765,
  1228768, 1320583, 1656926)
- The Office of Naval Research (award N68335-17-C-0558)
- The Semiconductor Research Corporation (tasks 1850.001, 1850.002)
- The Stanford Agile Hardware Center
- The Stanford SystemX Alliance
- UTRC

Downloads, documentation, tutorials, and more information are available at the
CVC4 web site: [http://cvc4.cs.stanford.edu/](http://cvc4.cs.stanford.edu)

-The CVC4 team
